# Abstract for Submissions

Subitization is the almost instantaneous ability of humans to visually deduce
the quantity of a group or category of objects given that the number is small
enough. For numbers beyond four, humans will instinctually use either a system
of approximation that is less accurate or an effortful, time-consuming counting
strategy. When one uses this process of subitizing, they are able to recognize
the numerosity of objects without counting, as if it were an alternate form of
perception.

Peripheral vision is the ability of humans to see objects that are outside the
focus of the eye. Although central vision within the focus requires most of our
mental resources, such as memory and attention, and allows us to see things
with sharp detail, peripheral vision enables us to view objects around the
entire visual field. Peripheral vision is also a vital component of detecting
motions and changes and supports functions of the central vision. Vision
scientists have shown that peripheral vision has relatively poor resolution and
acuity compared to central vision.

In this study, I examined humans' fundamental skills of “number sense” by
testing the effect of visual perception on one’s ability to precisely subitize
a small group of objects, along with controlling the amount of time that a
group of objects would be flashed.

The results indicated that although there was a significant difference in
accuracy between peripheral and central vision, such statistically significant
differences were not found between near and far peripheral vision (30 and 60
degrees of deviation respectively). The study also indicated a positive
correlation between the margin of error of the person and the displayed number.
